Lesson 2
Reflections:

Question:What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you
need to do it?
Answer:
When we initilize a repository the git gets initialized in that
directory. And by initilizing the git it starts to track all the files
in that directory. By initilizing git gets active but there are no
commits at this stage. we need to do it when we want to create a
repository. as its the first step we need to do to track and commit
versions of out data.

Question:
How is the staging area different from the working directory and the
repository? What value do you think it offers?
Answer:
stagging area comes in middle of both. files which are stagged are
tracked by git but not commited(yet). when ever we commit all the
files in stagging area are saved in that current version in that
commit. 
	"in my words we can say stagging area is like a office with
	safe all important files are gathered in office and at at important
	times or event all those files in office are copied into
	safe. anything outside the office is not important and never saved." 

Question:
How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per
logical change?
Answer:
By staging area we can keep adding one or more files which were
recently modified and commit then as soon as logically we complleted
one small milestone in our project. 
For example i need to add a picture in my website:
Steps involed:
add a picture to resource directory.
add the <src> tag in my html file
add code in my css file to align this picture.
so with git i will add the pic htmlfile and css file modified and and
once all steps are done i will commit it. so i dont have to commit
each file every time due to stagging area and i can still leave other
files like javascript if i am making something there which is not
complete. :)

Question:
What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping
your history organized? How would branches help?
Answer:
Mainly during the time when at a certain point in a program i have two
different strategies in mind. at times like these branches can allow
us to try both strategies on same project base still keeping new code
of both strategies seprate from each other and avoid confusion. later
we can see which one worked better and discard the other one or in
some cases even merge the two solutions if both worked out pretty well
and one can improve other.

Question:
How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Answer:
diagrams of logs of commits does help me understand how git works and
how stuff is printed out and in what fashion when i type git log.
Also to understand the branching structure of git diagrams like trees
with top as first commit helped me to understand the hierchial
structure. 

Question:
What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we
represent it in the diagram the way we do?
Answer:
Well the result is quite cool. It adds code of both branches and sync
them together in one branch. not just that it also arranches the both
branches in one as they are mergerd. so on git log it shows both
branches as one in order of time stamps. 
As I understood so far while merging git looks at previous
repositories to see which code we started with and how much each
branch deleted or added.
for example if i am working on one branch and I deleted a line of code
where as the branch i am trying to merge it with my branch still uses
that line of code gil will check this notice it and remove that line
in the final version. 
if we both deleted a line of code git will ignore it too. 
something new added by both will be included too (mostly probably).
not sure how it merges big programs i mean there we deviate a lot. 
there is a feature in git where when its not sure it askes to resolve
something to merge files. i hope its easy to understand. 
Diagrams:
and we use diagrams to represent merge as its very easy to image them
in share of tress (some sort of) and makes complete sense as they
behave. 

trying to merge still has that line of code

Question:
What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing
merges manually?
Answer:
Well in my opinion git does a pretty neat job in automatic
merging. Before this to be honest i never even thought of merging of
code was possible like this. and that too by such a simple logic of
code. in my opinion as long as you know what you were doing in both
branches and two branches emarged from a common source you can always
try autmatic merging. 
On other side when two branches have went to major changes which makes
them quite different from each other might be difficult to merge where
both parties contain a whole bunch of different code so these files
will be difficult to merge in general doest matter automatic or
manual. but if we are just copying some functions from one to another
then manual merging will be more advantageous. 
*still i need a lot more practice on this topic.


devi mata sharda sard ind samhas bando pad pankaj sada karo somat prakash.

